+++
title = "American Playboy: The Hugh Hefner Story"
date = 2020-11-05

[taxonomies]
tags = ["reviews", "series", "playboy", "amazon", "hugh hefner"]
+++

[IMDB Summary](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt5968748/?ref_=fn_al_tt_3):
The Amazon Original Series draws from unprecedented access to more than 17,000
hours of footage and over 2,600 scrapbooks from Hefner's personal archives,
chronicling the life of an American icon and the history of the brand he
created.

<!-- more -->

{{ stars(stars=1) }}

A series about Hugh Hefner, creator of the "Playboy" magazine. And, more than
than, a series *for* Hugh Hefner.

One sided documentary/docuseries is not something new, but I can remember
something so blatantly for the subject like this before.

Oh sure, Hefner came with an idea for a entering-adulthood-male magazine and
managed to interview some important personalities, give tips on wines and music
and clothing. And have naked women on them.

But, oh look, Playboy interviews Malcolm X, look like progressive they are! Oh,
look, they are showing a black woman naked on their pages! Oh, look, Penthouse
shows up, showing more risqu√© content, but Playboy won't do that with their
women, 'cause they are not about this. Oh no, poor Hefner is being attacked by
feminists for showing women as objects, and he can't understand, 'cause he
feels he's liberating and empowering them!

(Although I reckon feminists are right on this one, one can't stop thinking how
Playboy also treated men as objects: buy this, drink that, listen to this;
otherwise, you're not cool. Not in the same proportion, I understand, but
still...)

Oh, and Hefner? Focused on his business and not his (first) family, but that's
a problem with the way he was raised, not his. Oh, bad things, Hefner divorce,
but they are still friends. But fret not, one model caught his eyes and BLAM!
Love at the first sight! But it didn't last. Poor Hefner. But oh look, another
model! Another love at first sight! They are really meant to be together.
Except they don't 'cause she turned singer and he went to have afairs. How can
Hefner be happy if there isn't a woman near him? But don't be sad, they are
still friends. ANOTHER model caught his eye! They immediately fall in love. And
it lasts till they divorce, but hey, there are still friends! Another model!
(Rinse, repeat).

The love life of Hefner is one of the things that made me really pissed. He
openly admits he can't be alone, his affairs are sidelined, ex-wifes always say
he's so loving, just *one* admits she didn't like that he wanted an open
marriage for him and not for her and one you can clearly see that she does not
want to have Hef around, looks annoyed in the filming, but the narration said
they divorce and are "friends".

This is the kind of thing that push a documentary down. There are no downsides
of Hefner: He's loving, he's successful and he got ideas. Things he did wrong?
No, no things wrong, he's perfect!

The series is interesting around the initial episodes, showing the steps in the
creation of the Playboy magazine. But then it gets into this "social aspect" of
the magazine, and doesn't pip a thing about Hefner affairs, and it gets
annoying as fuck.
