+++
title = "Commented Links for 2020-08-09"
date = 2020-08-09

[taxonomies]
tags = ["links", "vim", "conference", "vimconf", "git", "branches", "excel",
"science", "openjdk", "arm", "windows", "rust", "cli", "dataframes", "cameras"]
+++

VimConf, Better SQL, Git Branches, Excel Fucking Science, OpenJDK on ARM, Rust
CLI Tools, DataFrames in Rust, World Windows.

<!-- more -->

## [VimConf 2020 Live](https://www.vimconf.live/)

One small good point on everything that is going around is the amount of
conferences going live.

And now there is VimConf going live.

For the incredible amount of $0.

## [We Can Do Better Than SQL](https://edgedb.com/blog/we-can-do-better-than-sql/)

"Hear, hear! Our product has a better thing than the rest of world! We
promise!"

Although I can understand that SQL is not perfect -- I mean, do anyone know
and know how to use all the join types? -- but it is one thing saying "our
system is better" when you can clearly see that the request needs information
beyond what you're showing.

Surely, your queries may be simple, but how much work there is when creating
the database for making that query possible? What proper cases does it match
and where does it make things harder? I can cite Rust as an example: It makes
possible to write parallel code correctly, but due this it is really hard to
write something like a linked list without running into some issues.

So yeah, your query is magical, but not showing where it falls flat gives zero
information about if I want to use it or not. SQL has its drawbacks, but there
are known and documented.

## [git branch --delete master](https://danso.ca/blog/git-branch-delete/)

No Master Branches, No God Branches.

This is kinda related to the other link shared 2 months ago, but gives an
explanation on how to kill your master branch and use something else.

## [Scientists rename human genes to stop Microsoft Excel from misreading them as dates](https://www.theverge.com/2020/8/6/21355674/human-genes-rename-microsoft-excel-misreading-dates)

What point we reached when science has to bow to the whims of technology...

## [OpenJDK Comes to Windows 10 on ARM](https://www.infoq.com/news/2020/08/openjdk-win10-arm/)

If you had any doubts that ARM is the platform for the future, there are two
points here that may make you rethink:

- There is Java 10 for ARM.
- There is a _Windows_ for ARM.

## [Rewritten in Rust: Modern Alternatives of Command-Line Tools](https://zaiste.net/posts/shell-commands-rust/)

I shared a list like this before, but I keep forgetting to install `hyperfine`
and I had to use `grex` once and forgot their names.

So, once again, in the hopes I'll remember to check my blog first.

## [Polars: Rust DataFrames](https://github.com/ritchie46/polars)

Data science in Rust. I didn't believe it was possible, but I can see the
first steps here.

## [WindowSwap](https://window-swap.com/)

This is one hell of a cool project, even if not directly linked to programming
itself.

People put cameras on their windows and you can check them, randomly.

