+++
title = "Links for 2020-03-05"
date = 2020-03-05

[taxonomies]
tags = ["links", "kubernetes", "k8s", "rust", "git", "git flow", "mastodon"]
+++

Interesting links for 2020-03-05.

<!-- more -->

# [“Let’s use Kubernetes!” Now you have 8 problems](https://pythonspeed.com/articles/dont-need-kubernetes/)

Not only explaining the problems of running K8s[^1], but also K8s codebase
itself (summary: it looks like a mess) and if you really should use K8s
(summary: only if you scale a lot, and you can scape from the scaling problem
altogether).

# [Please stop recommending Git Flow!](https://georgestocker.com/2020/03/04/please-stop-recommending-git-flow/)

I'm putting this here just because I wholeheartedly disagree with it. While
some points are real (the short-lived branch rule, for example), some are
(sorry, not sorry to say it) plain stupid.

Also, I do not believe in monorepos, 'cause monorepos bring the worst of
software development -- instead of focusing on separating things into
libraries and making proper releases, you just put everything globed together
and hope for the best. So yeah, it's not that Gitflow makes it impossible to
use monorepos, is that you shouldn't be using a monorepo in the first place!

# [Bye-Bye Mastodon, our account on Fosstodon.org was deleted yesterday](https://olimex.wordpress.com/2020/03/05/bye-bye-mastodon-our-account-on-fosstodon-org-was-deleted-yesterday/)

How a group of people working on open source projects but posted product
updates in one of the Mastodon servers and got kicked for advertising.

This is one thing that can happen on every project that you can't manage --
and that includes every other social network mentioned in the post, not only
Mastodon. What would you do if Twitter saw your advertising and decided you
should buy "Enterprise Twitter Pro" to be able to post such content?

Mastodon -- and the Fediverse, for that matter -- is formed by lots of
servers. Fosstodon is only one of them (I do have an account on [Functional
Cafe](https://functional.cafe/@juliobiason), for example. If the server policy
changed to something I was not in accord, I could just take my data (and yes,
you can take _all_ your data) and upload to another server, with different
policies. And if I don't agree with any server policy, I can run _my own
server_ and still connect with everyone.

So... Yeah, it's not that Mastodon is hard to use, or have a small community,
but you can _still_ be part of the Fediverse, if you want. Bonus: You can make
your _own_ policies for what is right or not.

# [genact - a nonsense activity generator](https://github.com/svenstaro/genact)

A very stupid CLI application with different modules to emulate some other
long-running CLI application, so you can let it run and seem you're waiting
for something.

# [caniuse.rs](https://caniuse.rs/)

I never thought we would get to this point: A "Can I Use" for Rust versions.
Can you use `iter::once_with`? Only on Rust 1.43 and up.

Sure, a language that is not standing still but keeps progressing, specially
since they are new, is a good thing, but it seems more and more features are
being pumped in every version. Also, as it is simple to update Rust (just run
`rustup update`) but it seems things are getting a bit out of hand.

---

[^1]: "K8s" is the short-form of "Kubernetes", and hence the title of "8
  problems".
