+++
title = "Links for 2020-03-09"
date = 2020-03-09

[taxonomies]
tags = ["links", "pharma", "meds", "wash your hands", "netlify", "generalists", "specialists", "licenses", "copyright", "torture", "movies", "anonymized data", "re-identifying", "guix", "c#", "functional", "uuid", "python", "context manager"]
+++

Generalists vs Specalists, Meds and Big Pharma Companies, Being Silly While
Washing Your Hands, Licensing and Copyrights, Torture in Movies, Badly
Anonymized Dataset Causes Melbourne Professor to Resign, Netlify Terms and
Telemetry, Packaging in Guix, Functional C#, UUIDs, Python Context Manager.

<!-- more -->

# [On being a generalist](https://flaviocopes.com/generalist/)

A more general explanation on the differences between generalists and
specialists. 

Personal take: Go for a generalist.

# [With no prospects for profits, big pharma neglects new infectious diseases](https://www.swissinfo.ch/eng/covid-19_with-no-prospects-for-profits--big-pharma-turns-back-on-new-infectious-diseases/45598436)

I guess this comes with no surprise.

Also, there is something _really_ wrong with pharma companies or with the
current _business_ model.

# [Wash Your Lyrics](https://washyourlyrics.com/)

You know those posters about how to wash your hands? You know that some people
are messing with them? Why not mess with your favourite song lyrics?

# [Please re-add original author to docs and license #1703](https://github.com/Guake/guake/issues/1703)

Short take: The author of Guake, a terminal emulator, found out his name was
removed from the project.

It's weird that I'm, right now, working on a presentation about licenses and
_all of them_ say that Copyright _can't be removed_! On top of that, licenses
and based on copyright and, thus, unless the author concedes the license of
their copyright, no one can remove them from the copyright (well, maybe after
75 or so years, IIRC).

# [Torture Prevalent, Effective in Popular Movies, Study Finds](https://www.ua.edu/news/2020/01/torture-prevalent-effective-in-popular-movies-study-finds/)

No, watching someone torture someone else won't make you a torturer, but will
desensitize you about torture and normalize it. And you shouldn't.

# [Melbourne professor quits after health department pressures her over data breach](https://www.theguardian.com/australia-news/2020/mar/08/melbourne-professor-quits-after-health-department-pressures-her-over-data-breach)

Once again, person gets "anonymized" data-set, manages to re-identify people.
This part is so freaking common, companies (and government) that provide this
kind of data should be sued, till we have some laws preventing companies to
provide data in this way.

But, instead, what we are getting is people trying to criminalize people
re-identifying people form those datasets. And that's stupid.

# [netlify still connects to telemetry server when user does not consent to telemetry! #739](https://github.com/netlify/cli/issues/739)

An issue on the Netlify CLI tool, which was (allegedly) sending telemetry
information even when the user requested to not send telemetry.

Now, while bugs are bugs and can happen, the discussion around it is quite
interesting, as Netlify people basically claim that going with telemetry on is
ok 'cause you accepted the terms of use of Netlify -- which, to me, sounds
like one hell of an excuse to let telemetry on by default.

# [How to package software for Guix (3)](https://jeko.writeas.com/how-to-package-software-for-guix-3)

Not that I get the Guix system yet, but I'm going to keep this around when I
jump into it.

# [Your C# is already functional, but only if you let it](https://hmemcpy.com/2020/03/your-csharp-is-already-functional/)

Again, I'm not using C#, but I find it interesting that the language have all
the tools to make a functional architecture in it.

# [Why your software should use UUIDs in 2020s](https://devforth.io/blog/why-your-software-should-use-uuids-in-2020s)

I'm already planning all my data to use UUIDs, but I guess a long post about
why you should use can also convince you to start using them.

# [The Python "with" Statement by Example](https://preshing.com/20110920/the-python-with-statement-by-example/)

Have I said how much I love the context manager in Python? 'Cause I love the
context manager in Python so much.
