+++
title = "Announcing JulioBiason.Net 3.0"
date = 2015-02-18
category = "announcements"

[taxonomies]
tags = ["meta", "blog", "pelican", "en-au"]
+++

Short version: New blog URL, engine and layout.

<!-- more -->

Long version: For a long time already, I've been thinking about using a static
blog generator. Not that there is anything wrong with dynamic blog engines (and
I'm a long time [WordPress](https://wordpress.org/) user, without any issues,
specially since my hosting company -- [Dreamhost](http://www.dreamhost.com/) --
offers easy updates), but... I don't know, I think it's easy to automate some
stuff when all you have are basic files, with no API to talk to.

So, here it is. A new blog URL, so all old posts are still visible in their
original paths (although this will be a problem in the future when I decide to
launch a 4.0 blog, but that's a problem for the future); a new engine, as
WordPress is not static, so I decided to go with
[Pelican](http://blog.getpelican.com/), simply because I know Python (I know
there is a huge community for [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/), but I'm not a
Ruby guy and I don't want to be a Ruby guy); and finally a new layout, as I
took everything I've been playing with [Zurb
Foundation](http://foundation.zurb.com/) and, since I'd automagically gain a
responsive layout, I did just that. And yes, the
[theme](https://bitbucket.org/juliobiason/pelican-fancy-foundation) is my
creation -- and that's why there is a bunch of broken stuff. I'll be fixing
them in the future, as I see them -- or someone reports them to me.

PS: There is actually a hidden thing, some [things I don't want to deal
again](http://juliobiason.net/2008/02/23/why-half-life-2-failed/), which could
probably crippling me in what to write (hence why the content was so dull and
boring in the last few months). Because static blogs don't have comments, I may
feel fine in finally discussing them.
