+++
title = "301 Smart Answers To Though Interview Questions - Vicky Oliver"
date = 2019-11-24

[taxonomies]
tags = ["en-au", "books", "reviews", "interviews", "vicky oliver"]
+++

[GoodReads Summary](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/287009.301_Smart_Answers_to_Tough_Interview_Questions):
In today's job market, how you perform in an interview can make or break your
hiring possibilities. If you want to stand a head above the rest of the pack,
301 Smart Answers to Tough Interview Questions is the definitive guide you need
to the real, and sometimes quirky, questions employers are using to weed out
candidates.

<!-- more -->

{{ stars(stars=1) }}

I have to be honest and say that I dropped the reading of this half-way through
it.

Right out of the bad, the author warns that one shouldn't simply repeat the
answers she's giving here, but put it their (the reader) own twist. And she
does a good thing by adding, after the answer, some tips around the answer
itself: why it works, what you shouldn't do, why such questions are asked...

But not every single answer have an explanation. They are there by themselves,
which makes a bit hard to put your own twist on them if you don't have any
pointers on why it works.

Also, so answers are simply... to hard to agree with. For example, if you have
kids and the interviewer asks if you had any problem staying up late working,
the answer is around the lines of "Fuck no. Fuck my kids. I love work. Go
work!" Not on those terms, but the interviewer is basically asking if you would
mind letting go of your time with your kids and you should answer "sure, fine"?
Obviously, you're trying to get that job, but what would happen if you say
something like "I don't mind staying late working instead of seeing my kids"
only to, months later, have your boss pissing on your hear for going home early
'cause one of your kids is sick? Are you going to answer "but it was my kid,
and they were sick!"? That's not what you said in the interview...

Obviously, there are things you can do to doing fine in an interview, but I
guess lying is not one of those.
