+++
title = "All You Need Is Kill - Hiroshi Sakurazaka"
date = 2014-12-03

[taxonomies]
tags = ["books", "hiroshi sakurazaka", "reviews", "scifi"]
+++

[GoodReads Summary](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6255949-all-you-need-is-kill):
When the alien Gitai invade, Keiji Kiriya is just one of many raw recruits
shoved into a suit of battle armor and sent out to kill. Keiji dies on the
battlefield, only to find himself reborn each morning to fight and die again
and again. On the 158th iteration though, he sees something different,
something out of place: the female soldier known as the Bitch of War. Is the
Bitch the key to Keijiâ€™s escape, or to his final death?

<!-- more -->

{{ stars(stars=4) }}

I admit I got this book because of "Edge of Tomorrow", which I watched before
reading the book. As usual, only the concept of the story is the same in both.
Apart from "soldier keeps repeating the same day over and over again due alien
technology", there is absolutely nothing in common with the movie.

The story starts slowly, mostly because Keiji Kiriya is still a fresh guy. But
he still kills one special alien and gains temporal superpowers. When that
happens, the story picks up and it's really hard to drop it. Then the story
stops to tell the backstory of Rita Vrataski and the pace drops a bit; then it
goes back to the fight and it picks up again. That's probably how I read this
thing so fast.

In a way, the book is more brutal than the movie, as much as "Jarhead" the
book is more brutal than "Jarhead" the movie. Also, the explanation for the
"time travel" -- which in the book is no time travel at all, being much more
akin to the way Kitty Pride sends people in the time in "X-Men: Days of Future
Past" -- seems much more plausible than the movie.

It is a short but interesting story, nonetheless.
