+++
title = "CoffeeScript Application Development - Ian Young"
date = 2016-05-07

[taxonomies]
tags = ["books", "ian young", "reviews", "javascript", "coffeescript", 
"web development", "it", "4 stars"]
+++

[GoodReads Summary](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18430540-coffeescript-application-development):
What JavaScript user wouldnt want to be able to dramatically reduce
application development time This book will teach you the clean, elegant
CoffeeScript language and show you how to build stunning applications.
Overview Learn the ins and outs of the CoffeeScript language, and understand
how the transformation happens behind the scenes Use practical examples to put
your new skills to work towards building a functional web application, written
entirely in CoffeeScript Understand the language concepts from short,
easy-to-understand examples which can be practised by applying them to your
ongoing project In Detail JavaScript is becoming one of the key languages in
web development. It is now more important than ever across a growing list of
platforms. CoffeeScript puts the fun back into JavaScript programming with
elegant syntax and powerful features. CoffeeScript Application Development
will give you an in-depth look at the CoffeeScript language, all while
building a working web application. Along the way, youll see all the great
features CoffeeScript has to offer, and learn how to use them to deal with
real problems like sprawling codebases, incomplete data, and asynchronous web
requests. Through the course of this book you will learn the CoffeeScript
syntax and see it demonstrated with simple examples. As you go, youll put your
new skills into practice by building a web application, piece by piece. Youll
start with standard language features such as loops, functions, and string
manipulation. Then, well delve into advanced features like classes and
inheritance. Learn advanced idioms to deal with common occurrences like
external web requests, and hone your technique for development tasks like
debugging and refactoring. CoffeeScript Application Development will teach you
not only how to write CoffeeScript, but also how to build solid applications
that run smoothly and are a pleasure to maintain.


<!-- more -->

{{ stars(stars=4) }}

In these days of ECMAScript 6, it's nice to see where a bunch of ideas of it
came from.

Coffee is a lot like the new JavaScript standard (just a bit more brackets).
The book manages to explain and show all the little nice things about it,
keeping a single application from start to finish, which helps a lot in
understanding the flows of it.

I just got a bit miffed with the upbeat tone of the book. It's not a full
Pollyanna, but a lot of "that looks a lot cleaner, don't it?" and "It's even
prettier than normal Javascript" gets into you pretty quick.
