+++
title = "Crap Dates - Rhodri Marsden"
date = 2021-03-19

[taxonomies]
tags = ["books", "reviews", "twitter", "dates", "books:2021", "stars:2",
"published:2012"]
+++

[GoodReads Summary](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18152436-crap-dates):

A good date can be exhilarating: a shared joke, an improbable spark, long
moments of gazing fondly into each other's eyes. Not so for the dating disasters
featured in this collection of laugh-out-loud actual tweets about the most
terrible evenings imaginable. From seriously unwelcome confessions, to dousing
dates in wine, to bringing them back to creepy apartments to meet favorite
stuffed animals, here are the funniest and most alarming reports from dating's
front lines. Along the way, author Rhodri Marsden offers tips on how to identify
and avoid the worst of the bad daters, including married men, blatant liars,
deluded optimists, and more. This harrowing collection of real nightmare dates
will amuse anyone who's suffered through one of cupid's off nights.

<!-- more -->

{{ stars(stars=2) }}

Ok, so not much as "offer tips", but mostly "these are things that people
replied to me when I complained about a bad date".

Not that the topic doesn't have a merit -- I mean, who doesn't want to know that
they weren't the only ones in a bad date -- but it felt like there was some
lacking of research. And I don't mean field research, but actually talking to
people instead of capturing their tweets and putting them in book form.

For example, you have this:

> A 23 yr old girl. “I think for my age I’ve achieved a hell of a lot.” she
> said. Then talked for three hours about her internet business.

Sure, that's a huge presumptuous comment to make in a first date, but "yr"?
Couldn't we edit this so at least it looks correct? Couldn't we do a research on
how the date went, how they met, how they picked a place and so on? Just the
tweet, then?

I mean, sure, the tweets tell a lot about how bad things went, but at least more
details would be nicer, specially when you go to a book format.
