+++
title = "Rust Essentials - Ivo Balbaert"
date = 2015-07-02
updated = 2021-02-12

[taxonomies]
tags = ["books", "ivo balbaert", "reviews", "rust", "it", "stars:3",
"published:2015"]
+++

[GoodReads Summary](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25644753-rust-essentials):
Discover how to use Rust to write fast, secure, and concurrent systems and
applications About This Book Learn how to create secure and blazingly fast
programs in Rust Start working with Rust in a multicore and distributed
environment Explore the core characteristics of Rust - safety, performance,
and concurrency - to build error free and robust code Who This Book Is For

<!-- more -->

{{ stars(stars=3) }}

Rust is a language that intrigues me. It seems it has a good deal of
protections and clever structures to prevent problems that other languages
have. And it usually outperforms C (at least, in the Euler tests).

But I really never really "got" the language just reading Rust By Example and
The Rust Programming Language. So I bought this book.

Sure, it goes slowly to teach you the light intricacies of the language, but
it never, in any point, goes deep into it, which is really annoying. It tries
to pick a subject to tell how to code in Rust (using a theoretical game), but
it never completes it. You never see the final product of all the stuff it was
just explained. And some examples have nothing to do with it.

The problem with shallowness of the book gets exponentially worse when talking
to complex subjects, like threading and unsafe blocks. Because it never goes
too deep, you end up handing with simple threads the basically just add
numbers, nothing something so complex that would actually require threads in
the first place.

Also, it seems the book was not reviewed. There is one paragraph saying one
thing (traits can't have implementations), just to, a few paragraphs later,
showing exactly the opposite (like a trait with an implementation). There are
two "We'll see X in the next section" with said next section just below it.

It's an ok introduction to Rust, but it goes short in several places.
