+++
title = "Zoe's Tale (Old Man's War, #4) - John Scalzi"
date = 2017-01-25
updated = 2021-02-12

[taxonomies]
tags = ["books", "john scalzi", "reviews", "old man's war", "scifi", 
"stars:4", "published:2015"]
+++

[GoodReads Summary](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2102600.Zoe_s_Tale):
Everyone on Earth knows the tale I am part of. But you don't know my tale: How
I did what I did — how I did what I had to do — not just to stay alive but to
keep you alive, too. All of you. I'm going to tell it to you now, the only way
I know how: not straight but true, the whole thing, to try make you feel what
I felt: the joy and terror and uncertainty, panic and wonder, despair and
hope. Everything that happened, bringing us to Earth, and Earth out of its
captivity. All through my eyes.

<!-- more -->

{{ stars(stars=4) }}

It's been awhile since I've read _The Last Colony_ and, when I started reading
this book, I thought "I've already read this, but since I don't remember
everything, no damage in reading it again". And somethings were different, so
I thought "Well, my memory is not the same anymore, it seems." And when I
finally finished the book and read the author's commentary about it, I finally
realized I didn't read "Zoe's Tale". At all.

Instead of going forward with the tale of Old Man's War main protagonists,
Scalzi starts at the very start of "Last Colony" and tells the same story by
the eyes of another character, this time (wanna guess?) Zoe. Kinda like
[book:Shadow of the Giant|8647 (and its series), which follows Bean instead of
Ender.

It's a fun book -- I still love the way Scalzi writes -- but if you try to
read after reading Last Colony, you may think you're reading the same thing
again.
